1. Please note that CPUs without [AES / AES-NI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AES_instruction_set#Intel_and_AMD_x86_architecture) extension **are not supported**. You can check your CPU details on [CPU World website](http://www.cpu-world.com/CPUs/).

2. xmr-stak-cpu **CryptoNight** miner has support for **LOCKED PAGES**; it will give more performance when enabled. How to enable: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-gb/library/ms190730.aspx (even though the how-to is for Windows Server, the same settings applies for Windows 10; please note that you may have to restart OS after changing). You have to be **logged into Windows as Administrator** or **run NiceHashMiner.exe As Administrator** (right-click -> Run as Administrator) in order for this feature to work. To properly benchmark CPU mining it is best to reboot the system with as little auto-start applications as possible before benchmarking.

3. If you have a recent Intel CPU and you are used to overclock CPU, you can tune some CPU cache settings in order to achieve best performance. You can try to set BIOS setting **CPU Cache Ratio** to the same value as your max **CPU Ratio**. For example if a CPU Ratio for a 4.5 GHz Intel CPU with 100 MHz BLCK is **45**, then the Min and Default **CPU Cache Ratio** has also to be set to **45**. As always, **be careful with overclocking and keep in mind that overclocking or forcing manual settings might void your hardware warranty or damage your hardware**.

4. By default the optimal number of used CPU Threads is automatically determined during benchmark. This setting is set for each algorithm in "Less Threads" setting (Settings / Devices/Algorithms / CPU / selected algorithm / Less Threads field). Please note that NiceHash Miner might utilize 100% of your CPU - thus **not** leaving some adequate CPU power for the background processes (such as GPU mining if you are also using GPUs in your system). If you wish to leave some thread/core unused by CPU mining, then you should set "Less Threads" to a value, greater than 0 (1 = leave 1 thread unused, 2 = 2 leave 2 threads unused, etc.).

5. If you have a CPU **with** Hyper-Threading support (HT), then you might also want to experiment with special "Extra Launch Settings" (Settings / Devices/Algorithms / CPU / selected algorithm / Extra Launch Settings field). If you enter enable_ht=true in this field, and set "Less Threads" to 0, then NHM will use per-core affinity and run mining only on physical cores, leaving HT threads unused. In some cases this yields in a bit higher performance. You'll notice that only 50% of overall CPU utilization will be show by Task Manager or similar utilities, however due to the nature of mining algorithms and the nature of how Hyper-Threading works, **100% of CPU compute power will actually be used**.